Alright, so it's time to start creating
an app that does a little bit more than
just displaying some text on the screen.
So in this section we're going to create
a button click app to show how to get a
button on the screen to perform some
operation when it's clicked. Now we're
going to use this relatively simple
example to have a look at quite a few
important concepts and we're actually
going to cover firstly the constraint
layout and this was introduced in
Android studio 2.2 and it's much more
efficient than the previous approach of
having to nest layouts to create your
apps screens. Now although it was
introduced when Nougat was released
Android N, Google have made sure that
it's compatible with all API levels way
back to Gingerbread and that's API 9,
secondly we're going to look at views
now every widget you place on the screen
is actually a view in Android and a
widget by the way are the various
components that make up a useful Android
screen things like buttons text boxes
sliders they're all views. Now it's
possibly a strange use of the word view
but that's what Android calls them, third
we're going to look at Android events.
Now when we want a button to do
something we have to write code that
responds to an event now in this case
the event is the user tapping the button,
so we'll see how that's done
we're also going to look at writing code
in Android studio now we can't do much
at all without creating some code so
this section will introduce writing
Kotlin code in Android studio, we're also
going to look at activities as well as
the activity lifecycle now activities
are an important concept in Android so
I'm going to be explaining what they are
and discussing their lifecycle when an
app is running, you'll also see that
Android destroys your screens when you
do something like rotating the phone
from portrait into landscape it stops
your code and completely removes the
entire activity from memory, now that
sounds a bit drastic but we'll be
looking at how Android allows us to cope
with that situation and it happens when
you use most apps and it is something
that users are generally aware of.
Alright we're going to start by showing
now how to use the designer in Android studio
to create two screens for our app and we'll
have a play with it to get used to how
it works and what we can do with it.
So let's get started on that in the next video.